There are again numerous explanations but summarised by the great master known as Shanti Deva.
No, not Shanti Deva. Aryadeva, Aryadeva, is foremost a disciple of the Nargiluna.
Anybody said, they said three and then two more, and five qualities.
First is, again I will list it and then of course you will know that too.
First is, is no partialities, no partiality or no bias, bias, no biases.
And smart or intelligent, smart and keen interested, keen interested, keen interested.
And so that is three. Three is really important according to the teachings.
If you don't have that, even you met the qualified teacher, not going to see qualified teacher as
qualified,
and see the wrong things. So it's not going to go.
Beside that two more, respect the folks, respect the folks, and pay a very attentive listening.
These five are the five qualities of the disciples or the students.
So this is what the teaching says. Qualified teacher, qualified students.
Then, this is again of course always in the teaching said, I'm sure you read so many books, there
are so many books, proposed to be expert to find qualified teacher.
And the second one you find a qualified teacher and to be expert how to communicate contact with
qualified teacher.
And the third is in the teaching said, be expert to be expert and be practical to learn the
knowledge and the teaching and gain the kind of intention of the qualified teacher.
If you do that, then you'll be able to become a very perfect practitioner and a part of the lineage
for you.
So those are the teachings. That is the other approach.
And then many times, also of course, you read too, there's many times, there's not really examples
of those qualified days and days.
For example, all those 25 disciples in the Guru Pima Sambha, they did not examine the Guru Pima Sam
bha or the Master Chaita Rakita.
By seeing, by receiving the teaching, immediately they observed that they are just highly ready,
highly qualified and they got enlightened within their lifetime.
They arrived. And they read the largest story of the Mala Reva, great master Mala Reva.
When he met Marva, Marva, he did an exam, he did that. Even Marva did all those harsh things.
He is so happy. His courage and commitment, determination and devotion are so deep. And the Mala
Reva becomes as Mala Reva's.
And the great master from Chippah, when he met his root teacher, he did an exam in a life and
immediately he caught it and it was strategic and he became the master of great masters.
And then in the Indian, there were so many great things. For example, Naropa met him at the level.
Again he did an exam. Just hearing the names of the level, he caught it and even met all the
different harsh difficulties.
Completely stone is solid and reached the enlightenment.
So this is the one thing that how those great masters, when they talk, they didn't really examine
all these things.
But they received the teaching and then practiced it and they reached enlightenment.
So that is how this is done.
But this time, he told him, "Don't you know what to say here? I pay homage to my teacher."
So his teacher, he said, as his teacher, "As in Bodhima, O, Buddha, Dharma, Sangha, every
enlightenment, I pay homage."
And that is in the Buddha teaching, only said, "Lama represents O in the Buddha teaching, in the V
aidhyana teaching."
Teacher represents all of those qualified teachers.
That is for us, when we meet the qualified teacher, they are a representative of all that.
So seeing that and pay respect and devotion with full of devotion.
So that is really about the teacher and again.
And then one in the teaching said, "Also, that generally, as he said, the Bodhima teacher, there is
no perfect teacher.
There is always, I mean, there is no perfect teacher. There is no one who can find perfect teachers
.
There is always errors, mistakes. Maybe the teacher that we only meet, they are also in the park.
They are practicing. So I'm up there on them."
But what is it what the teaching said? I'm sure many of you know that.
Poor reliance, poor reliable, poor reliable.
And what is it? Relying on the teaching not to the individuals.
Relying on the teaching not to the individuals. Is it true?
We can not be enjoy with that individuals. Whatever that is, man and woman, whatever that is.
But because we can, because of the teaching. So that teaching is what we are really attracted to.
That is what we rely on.
Then one in the teaching one, teaching also has two.
And word teaching and meaning teaching. World and meaning. W-O-R-D.
What Buddha teaching said? When he comes to the teaching, not relying on the world, but on the
meaning.
Not just what language he uses or something. Think of the meaning.
That is more important. That's what we like to observe. It's the essence of the world.
World is a world. A meaning is important.
Then when he comes to the meaning, what in the Buddha's teaching said?
Relying on the ultimate meaning, not interpretable meanings.
I'm sure you heard those interpretable meanings.
Relying on the ultimate meaning, not interpretable meaning.
Such that means can be interpreted.
Ultimate meanings. When he comes to the meaning, not relying on the conception,
but relying on the versatility. Then there are no merits, no mistakes, no disappointments.
It's perfect. So therefore, what do we want?
What do we want the student to observe us?
Practition is what we want. We want the teaching. Teaching, we want meaning.
Unchangeable, ultimate meaning. Ultimate meaning, how we are going to observe.
Not the conceptual level, but we are going to observe that in the Muslim level.
Absolute level. Those are the teachings. So that is what it is.
And now, so that is really about the post lamas, how many lamas?